Java Identifiers: The Naming System
In simple terms, an Identifier is just a "Name." Just as every person has a name to identify them, every element in a Java program needs a name so the computer knows which one you are talking about.

1. What is an Identifier?
An identifier is a word used to identify:
Variables: (e.g., int age = 25; → age is the identifier)
Methods: (e.g., void calculateTotal() → calculateTotal is the identifier)
Classes: (e.g., class Student → Student is the identifier)
Interfaces: (e.g., interface Playable → Playable is the identifier)

2. Rules for Creating Identifiers
You can't just name things anything you want! Java has strict rules (grammar) for identifiers:
Allowed Characters: You can use Alphabets (a-z, A-Z), Digits (0-9), Underscore (_), and Dollar sign ($).
It must begins with alphabet, underscore symbol or dollar symbol
✅ _total123 is valid.
❌ 123total is invalid.

Case Sensitive: Java treats uppercase and lowercase differently.
Number and number are two different identifiers.
No Reserved Words: You cannot use Java "Keywords" (like int, class, public, if) as identifiers because they already have a special meaning in Java.
No Spaces: You cannot have spaces within a name.
✅ my_variable or myVariable
❌ my variable






Java Literals: The Fixed Values
A literal is the actual constant value in a program. While a variable stores values that can change, a literal is the value itself and never changes.
Example: In int x = 100;
x is the Identifier (the name).
100 is the Literal (the actual value).

2. Common Categories of Literals
To keep things organized, Java divides literals based on the type of data they represent.

A) Integer Literals
These represent whole numbers (without any decimal point). They can be positive, negative, or zero.
Examples: 15, 93, 0, -34, 1000.
Use Case: Counting items, setting ages, or defining a loop limit.

B) Floating Point Literals
These represent real numbers or numbers that contain a fractional/decimal part.
Examples: 5.23, 0.008, -2.343, 3.14.
Use Case: Calculating percentages, prices, or scientific measurements.

3) Character Literals
These represent a single character (a letter, digit, or symbol).
The Rule: Character literals must always be enclosed in single quotes (' ').
Examples: 'a', 'A', '9', '%'.
Important: Even a number like '0' is a character if it is in single quotes; it doesn't have a numeric value for math in this form.

4) String Literals
These represent a sequence of characters (words, sentences, or even numbers treated as text).
The Rule: String literals must always be enclosed in double quotes (" ").
Examples: "Hello", "welcome", "123", "5.3".
Key Difference: While 'a' is a Character, "a" is a String.

5) Boolean Literals
These represent logical values or states. They are the simplest literals in Java because there are only two possible values.
Values: true, false.
Note: In Java, these must be lowercase. They represent "Yes/No" or "On/Off" conditions in your code.

6) Object Literals (The null Literal)
In Java, when we talk about literals for objects, we specifically refer to the null literal.
Value: null.
Definition: It represents a reference that does not point to any object. Think of it as an "empty" or "void" value for complex data types.
